Well, it's obvious that our subject for this morning is the transfiguration of Jesus.
And I thought we considered two points about that event.
First, how Jesus and the apostles were affected by it,
and then how Bible prophecy and the transfiguration should affect all of us.
Let's first remind ourselves about that event.
Term with me, please, to Luke 9.
Luke 9, now Matthew and Mark also wrote about the event.
But as we read Luke's account, we'd like you to imagine yourself witnessing the scene.
Now, the insight on the scriptures tells us that the transfiguration may have taken place on a spur of Mount Herman.
It was at night.
Recently, if you look there in Luke 9.27,
Jesus had told his apostles that some of them would not taste death until they'd seen the kingdom of God.
Let's see what happened next, verse 28.
In fact, about eight days after saying these words,
he took Peter, John, and James along and climbed up the mountain to pray.
And as he was praying, the appearance of his face changed,
and his clothing became glitteringly white.
And look, two men were conversing with him.
They were Moses and Elijah.
These appeared with glory and began talking about his departure,
which he was about to fulfill a Jerusalem.
Now Peter and those with him were way down with sleep.
But when they became fully awake, they saw his glory and the two men standing with him.
And as these were departing from him, Peter said to Jesus,
instructor, it is fine for us to be here.
So let us erect three tents, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.
He did not realize what he was saying.
But as he was saying these things, a cloud formed and began to overshadow them
as they entered into the cloud, they became afraid.
Then a voice came out of the cloud saying,
this is my son, the one who has been chosen.
Listen to him.
As the voice spoke, Jesus was found alone.
What an event.
Imagine how you would have reacted if you'd been there.
Jesus face shown as the sun.
His garments glisten.
Mark's account states that his garments were far wider than any clothes cleaner on Earth could widen them.
Jesus spoke to Moses and Elijah, great prophets of old who had been dead for centuries.
Of course, they weren't there literally.
This was just a vision.
But then the climax, God's voice identified Jesus as his son and commanded the apostles to listen to him.
If you had been there, that would be an event you would never forget.
But how were Jesus and the apostles affected?
Well, Jesus must have been affected in a positive way.
If you notice there, verses 30 and 31, it talks about Moses and Elijah speaking about Jesus departure,
evidently involving Jesus' death and resurrection to spirit life.
The transfiguration, it seems, served to fortify Jesus for his sufferings and death that he would experience.
And Jesus' faith must have been strengthened when he heard his heavenly Father speak of him as his approved son.
How were the apostles affected?
What we see initially, did you notice the end of verse 34?
They became afraid.
Matthew's account says they fell face down and became very much afraid.
But how did that event affect them afterwards?
Well, the transfiguration helped to strengthen the faith of these men who were to play a leading role in the Christian congregation.
For example, the events strengthened their faith that Jesus was God's son and the future King of God's kingdom.
The transfiguration strengthened their faith in Bible prophecy.
The event gave them convincing evidence that Jesus was the Messiah, the one whom their forefathers and prophesied about.
And that discussion with Moses and Elijah about Jesus departure strengthened the apostles' faith in Christ's resurrection.
So strong was their faith after the transfiguration that some expressed it with inspired words.
It could be that the Apostle John's words at John 1 verse 14 were influenced by the transfiguration.
He wrote,
so the word became flesh and resided among us and we had a view of his glory.
A glory such as belongs to an only begotten son from a Father.
And as was mentioned, some 32 years after the event, about 64 CE, note with me what Peter still recalled.
Second Peter, chapter 1, please turn there. Second Peter, chapter 1.
Notice what Peter recalled starting in verse 16.
No, it was not by following artfully contrived false stories that we made known to you the power and presence of our Lord Jesus Christ.
But rather, we were eyewitnesses of his magnificence.
For he received from God the Father honor and glory when words such as these were conveyed to him by the magnificent glory.
This is my son, my beloved whom I myself have approved.
Yes, these words we heard coming from heaven while we were with him in the holy mountain.
So again, 32 years later, the transfiguration was as real to Peter as the day had happened.
But now notice what Peter next told Christians.
What did you write to them? Verse 19.
So we have the prophetic word made more sure.
And you are doing well in paying attention to it as to a lamp shining in a dark place until day dawns and a day star rises in your hearts.
So the transfiguration was a prophetic event.
And after remembering that event, what did Peter write?
That is Christians we need to pay attention to the prophetic word.
Now that brings us to our second point how Bible prophecy and the transfiguration should affect all of us.
The transfiguration should strengthen our faith that Jesus is God's son and the promised Messiah.
It should fortify our belief in Jesus' resurrection to spirit life in heaven.
This amazing vision should increase our faith in God's government because of the preview of Christ's glory and kingdom power.
And the transfiguration also should emphasize to us the reliability of God's prophetic word.
But how do we pay attention to the prophetic word as Peter wrote?
Well, one way is by Bible study and meditation.
We need to study Bible prophecy.
We need to meditate on fulfilled prophecy.
The prophecy is being fulfilled today and those future prophecies.
If the prophetic word is to be a lamp shining in a dark place that is in our figurative hearts,
then we have to allow Bible prophecy to affect us deeply.
Our desires, emotions, motivations, our goals, our decisions.
The anointed, such a good example in paying attention to the prophetic word in that way as they await their heavenly reward.
But what are the benefits of paying attention to the prophetic word for those of us with an earthly hope?
Well, the prophetic word itself gives us insight into the benefits associated with things that will see fulfilled with our own eyes.
For instance, in God's new world, vicious or fierce humans, not even wild animals will cause any harm or any ruin.
Isaiah 119.
The meek will possess the earth and they will find exquisite delight in the abundance of peace.
Psalm 3711.
No more long lines for food, no more people starving.
For there will be an abundance of grain on the earth, on the top of the mountains it will overflow.
Psalm 7216.
Sickness will be gone, pandemics will be gone.
No longer will tears of sorrow be shed and even death will be no more.
Isaiah 3324 and Revelation 214.
Can you imagine no more doctors, no more medicine, no more hospitals, and no more funerals?
Why even the grave will be emptied when deaths give way to resurrections?
John 528 and 29.
Those of us with an earthly hope, we long for life in that new world, don't we?
We can imagine ourselves there seeing those prophecies fulfilled,
and we will be there if we keep paying attention to the prophetic word.
Well, what have we considered?
We examine the positive and face strengthening impact the transfiguration had on Jesus and the three apostles.
And we considered how Bible prophecy and the transfiguration should affect each one of us,
the benefits from paying attention to the prophetic word.
Just think where we would be without God's prophetic word,
not knowing why conditions continue to get worse,
not knowing what to do or where to go, not knowing what the future holds,
how loving of our Heavenly Father to provide us an understanding of His prophetic word.
The Watchtower once stated this about Bible prophecy.
As a lamp, it's always before us.
We can take hold of it, and it helps us see the road to take.
And it burns brighter as the evil conditions of this world grow darker.
May all of us continue to appreciate how Bible prophecy and the transfiguration
affect each one of us.